Blog: Flagsmith alternatives (#8607)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/blog/best-flagsmith-alternatives.mdx

---
title: 'The best Flagsmith alternatives & competitors, compared'

> date: 2024-05-31

Author: ```suggestion
date: 2024-06-11
```

  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={false} feature="Product analytics" description="Track trends, funnels, user paths, and retention" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Open source" description="Audit code, contribute to roadmap, and build integrations" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="EU hosting option" description="Choose where your data is stored" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Self-hosting" description="Host on your own server" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Governance" description="Audit log, roles-based access, permissions" />
</ComparisonTable>

### Why do companies use Unleash?

According to G2, these are the 

1. **Self-hostable:** Many users mention they are using the open source version of Unleash and self-hosting. This means teams with compliance concerns can integrate it into their existing infrastructure.

2. **Developer-focused:** Unleash focuses on developers. Its tooling and SDKs make it relatively simple for them to implement feature management.

> 2. **Simple UI:** Even though Unleash is developer-focused, its UI is still praised for making it easy to create and manage toggles. Developers mentioned non-developers are able to set up and manage toggles without help.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. **Simple UI:** Even though Unleash is developer-focused, people still like that its UI makes it easy to create and manage toggles. Developers mentioned non-developers are able to set up and manage toggles without help.
```

> #### Bottom line

> > Unleash is very focused on feature flags, and if that is what you are looking for, it makes a good alternative to Flagsmith. If you're searching for A/B testing or other types of optimization and analysis tools, it's best to look elsewhere.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Unleash is very focused on feature flags. If that's what you are looking for, it makes a good alternative to Flagsmith. If you're searching for A/B testing or other types of optimization and analysis tools, it's best to look elsewhere.
```

## 5. Split

- **Founded:** 2015
- **Similar to:** DevCycle, LaunchDarkly
- **Typical users:** Engineering teams

![Split](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/v1710055416/posthog.com/contents/images/blog/best-launchdarkly-alternatives/split.png)

### What is Split?

> [Split](/blog/best-split-alternatives) is a feature management platform combining feature flags with testing and observability to ship features safely and effectively. It cares more about preventing issues with monitoring than other Flagsmith alternatives.

Reviewer: 'cares more about' is a bit confusing. a product can't care. can you rephrase?

> [Split](/blog/best-split-alternatives) is a feature management platform combining feature flags with testing and observability to ship features safely and effectively. It cares more about preventing issues with monitoring than other Flagsmith alternatives.

Author: ```suggestion
[Split](/blog/best-split-alternatives) is a feature management platform combining feature flags with testing and observability to ship features safely and effectively. It emphasizes more on preventing issues with monitoring tools than other Flagsmith alternatives.
```

  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2="Requires 3rd-party analytics" feature="Multivariate (A/B/n) testing" description="Test multiple variants of a change" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={false} feature="Product analytics" description="Track trends, funnels, user paths, and retention" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={true} feature="Open source" description="Audit code, contribute to roadmap, and build integrations" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={true} feature="EU hosting option" description="Choose where your data is stored" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={true} feature="Self-hosting" description="Host on your own server" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Governance" description="Audit log, roles-based access, permissions" />
</ComparisonTable>

### How popular is Split?

According to [BuiltWith](https://trends.builtwith.com/analytics/Split), 173 of the top million sites use Split as of April 2024.

### Why do companies use Split?

According to G2, reviewers are big fans of Split because:

> 1. **Ease of setup:** Reviewers appreciate how easy Split is to set up thanks to their SDKs, guides, and user interface.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Ease of setup:** Reviewers appreciate how easy Split is to set up thanks to its SDKs, guides, and user interface.
```

2. **More confident releases:** The tools Split provides, like easy feature kill switches, alerts, and monitoring enable reviewers to be confident in their feature releases.

3. **Intuitive interface:** Creating a new flag is simple, but Split maintains the depth more advanced users require as well. Reports are easy to understand.

> #### Bottom line
> Because it offers nearly the same features while being self-serve, Split makes for a great alternative to Flagsmith. For teams needing absolute confidence in their new features, Split's monitoring and alerting tools are a big help.

<br />

## 6. GrowthBook

- **Founded:** 2020
- **Similar to:** LaunchDarkly, Statsig
- **Typical users:** Engineers and data scientists

![GrowthBook](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/v1713309283/posthog.com/contents/images/blog/best-split-alternatives/growthbook.png)

### What is GrowthBook?

[GrowthBook](/blog/posthog-vs-growthbook) is a warehouse-native feature flag and experimentation platform. Its biggest selling point is integrating with the product and data tools you already use.

> It's a popular choice for companies in strict regulatory environments because it is warehouse-native and self-hostable, but you can also use its hosted cloud version. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's a popular choice for companies in strict regulatory environments because it's warehouse-native and self-hostable, but you can also use its hosted cloud version. 
```

  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Scheduling" description="Schedule flag updates and rollouts" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Cohorts" description="Gradually release features to specific groups" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2="Requires 3rd-party analytics" feature="Multivariate (A/B/n) testing" description="Test multiple variants of a change" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={false} feature="Product analytics" description="Track trends, funnels, user paths, and retention" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={true} feature="Open source" description="Audit code, contribute to roadmap, and build integrations" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={true} feature="EU hosting option" description="Choose where your data is stored" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={true} feature="Self-hosting" description="Host on your own server" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Governance" description="Audit log, roles-based access, permissions" />
</ComparisonTable>

### Why do companies use DevCycle?

> According to G2, reviewers appreciate DevCycle's:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
According to G2, reviewers appreciate DevCycle for the following reasons:
```

1. **Pricing:** Unlike other tools listed, DevCycle reviewers praise its fair pricing and say it provides great value.

2. **Simplicity:** DevCycle makes it easy for reviews to get feature flags set up and start improving their feature management process.

3. **Integrations:** The fact that DevCycle integrates with GitHub and Jira helps developer workflow. 

> #### Bottom line

> > Because DevCycle is very similar to Flagsmith, it makes for a good alternative. If you have a strict regulatory environment and could benefit from open source or self-hosting, other options are better.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> DevCycle is a good Flagsmith alternative because it's very similar. If you have a strict regulatory environment and could benefit from open source or self-hosting, other options are better.
```
